Welcome to the 2020 “Always Rejoice”!
Regional Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
From the start, we wish to convey to you
greetings from the Governing Body
and the entire Bethel family.
And we want you to know that we love you,
and we keep you in our prayers.
So, now, whether you are watching
this from home or from some other location,
this is our convention for 2020.
And what an encouraging theme,
“Always Rejoice”!
We need to discuss this subject
now more than ever before, don’t we?
Is it possible to rejoice
as the world crumbles around us?
Yes, it is.
Those who love Jehovah
can always find reasons to rejoice.
Throughout this convention,
we will discuss
four things
that will help us to rejoice.
What are they?
(1) We will consider
the reasons we have for rejoicing,
(2) we will examine
how we can cultivate godly joy,
(3) we will look at how we
can maintain joy despite trials,
and (4) we will discuss
how to express joy,
that is, the joy we receive
from serving Jehovah.
Now let’s lay the foundation
for all of this
by first answering the question:
What is true joy?
What is commonly called joy
is an emotion that is stirred
by a feeling of well-being,
by a sense of success,
or because of expecting
something good.
And for this reason,
joy may seem to come and go
depending on what
is happening around us.
You might call it circumstantial joy.
But that is not the case with true joy.
Why?
Because true joy
—godly joy—
is an aspect of the fruitage
of God’s holy spirit.
True joy is a quality of the heart
that is not dependent on external things
happening around us.
This godly quality comes
from knowing that you have the truth,
that you are doing what pleases God,
and that your Kingdom hope
is certain to be fulfilled.
So then, we see
there’s a big difference
between having circumstantial joy
and having “joy of holy spirit.”
This is illustrated for us in the Scriptures
by the example
of the Christians in Thessalonica.
The apostle Paul and others
helped them to prepare ahead of time
to face persecution with joy,
and prepare they did.
How?
They became strong in faith.
Let’s read
about what this did for them
at 1 Thessalonians 1:6.
As we read the verse, ask yourself,
‘Where did their deep-seated joy come from?’
The verse reads:
“And you became imitators of us,
and of the Lord,
“seeing that you accepted
the word under much tribulation
with joy of holy spirit.”
Where did their joy come from?
Two things are mentioned:
They imitated good examples,
and they had the joy that comes
from having God’s holy spirit on them.
We too can acquire
“joy of holy spirit,” as mentioned here,
by applying what we learn
and seeking Jehovah’s blessing,
his spirit.
Godly joy is not a mere personality trait
that we are born with then, is it?
And it doesn’t come to us
simply because of pleasant circumstances.
“Joy of holy spirit”
is found deep within us.
And so it should not be confused
with simply being cheerful or exuberant.
Godly joy is not superficial.
It’s not found
in constantly smiling or laughing.
To show the difference,
think of a comedian
who seems to be able
to find what is funny
in just about any situation in life.
Yet, deep down inside,
he may be very unhappy.
In contrast, like the Christians
in Thessalonica,
we can have “joy of holy spirit”
even when we
are under tribulation.
We may not smile
through a bad time,
but our deep inner joy
in serving Jehovah is immovable.
It’s part of “the new personality”
that true Christians put on
in order to be like Christ.
Now, with this basic understanding
of godly joy in mind,
let’s give our attention
to Brother Stephen Lett,
a member of the Governing Body,
as he welcomes us
to this “Always Rejoice”! convention.
And please listen carefully
as he explains why godly joy
is such a special quality.
Welcome to the “Always Rejoice”!
Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
We’re so happy
that you were able to arrange
to attend all three days
of this convention.
Why were the apostle Paul’s words
at Philippians 4:4 chosen
as the theme for this year’s convention?
Well, over the past four years,
the Governing Body
has used conventions
to highlight qualities
that endear us to Jehovah
and help us to be victorious
in our struggle
against Satan and his world.
We’ve had convention themes
that focused on the need
for loyalty,
endurance,
courage,
and love.
This year,
the convention theme highlights
the need for joy.
At Nehemiah 8:10,
we’re told:
“The joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.”
In the near future,
our faith will be tested
as never before.
But if we acquire true joy
with the help of God’s holy spirit,
we’ll be able to stand firm
and weather all the storms
that come our way.
Godly joy is a deep-seated quality
of the heart.
It’s a state of happiness that remains
whether the conditions
around us are pleasant or not.
In fact, a person
can be disturbed about something
but still have joy in his heart.
For example, the apostles were flogged
for speaking about the Christ.
Yet, “they went out
from before the Sanhedrin,
“rejoicing because they
had been counted worthy
to be dishonored in behalf of his name.”
Obviously, they weren’t rejoicing
over the flogging they had received.
But as servants of God,
they found true joy
in keeping their integrity to him.
However, is it possible for a Christian
always to be rejoicing?
Yes, because true joy is an aspect
of the fruitage of God’s holy spirit.
As an inward quality,
joy is not dependent on external things,
not even on our brothers.
But it does depend on God’s spirit.
And as already noted,
our joy comes
from that deep inner satisfaction
of knowing that we have the truth,
that we’re doing what pleases Jehovah,
and that our Kingdom hope is sure.
So godly joy is not the transient joy
that people experience
because they’ve secured a well-paying job,
gone on an exotic vacation,
attained fame and prestige,
or acquired some
coveted material item
or large sum of money.
No, true joy has to be cultivated
by means of holy spirit.
To obtain Jehovah’s holy spirit,
we have to draw close to him
and give him exclusive devotion.
At Acts 5:32,
we’re told that God gives holy spirit
“to those obeying him as ruler.”
During these three days,
the convention program
will help us to deepen
our appreciation
for godly joy.
We’ll learn what true joy is,
how to cultivate it,
how to maintain it during difficult times,
and how to display it
as it wells up in our hearts.
Such joy will clearly identify us
as disciples of Jesus,
and it will enable us to serve
as beacons of light in this dark world
and draw others to our “happy God.”
You’ll note
that nearly the entire second day
has been devoted
to the joy of disciple-making.
Godly joy will help us
to face challenges to our integrity.
Remember that it was
“the joy that was set before him”
that helped Jesus to face
an excruciating death on a torture stake.
So please pay rapt attention
to the talks and videos.
Look up the scriptures,
and read them along with the speakers,
thus allowing God’s Word
to exert its powerful force
on your heart.
May this convention
become a milestone
in your development
as a joyful imitator of our happy God.
How thankful we are
that he made us “in his image,”
giving us the capacity
to feel and express godly joy!
And how thankful we are
that he also gives us his holy spirit
to help us cultivate that kind of joy!
We love you very much,
and we pray that each one of you
will forever respond to the words
of the psalmist at Psalm 100:2:
“Serve Jehovah with rejoicing.
Come into his presence
with joyful shouting.”
We wish to thank Brother Lett
for building up our anticipation
for this “Always Rejoice”! convention.
As Brother Lett highlighted,
godly joy is indeed a very special quality.
Such true joy
comes from Jehovah himself.
In fact, the Bible
says that he always
has reasons to rejoice
—so much so
that being happy
describes his personality.
Let’s see this for ourselves
as we read 1 Timothy 1:11.
The context in verses 8 through 10
lists many of the bad qualities and actions
that people of this world display.
But they can change if they listen
to our joyful God, Jehovah.
With that in mind,
note the apostle Paul’s inspired words
in verse 11,
as he goes on to say
“according to the glorious good news
of the happy God,
with which I was entrusted.”
Why can Jehovah be called happy
despite seeing all of the problems
and suffering on the earth?
Well, among the many things
that make him happy are the following four.
(1) Jehovah is the Creator.
Everything he does is perfect.
Deuteronomy 32:4 says:
“Perfect is his activity.”
For this reason, Jehovah
can rightly rejoice in his creation.
That fact is undeniable,
and it’s clearly stated
in Psalm 104:31.
As we read it together,
consider how determined
Jehovah is to keep his joy.
Verse 31 says:
“The glory of Jehovah will last forever.
Jehovah will rejoice in his works.”
The point:
Jehovah will not be denied, will he?
He will find joy
in what he has accomplished.
No one can take that from him.
He is the happy God whose purpose for man
and for the earth will be realized.
Adding to his happiness is reason (2)
Jehovah is generous.
And we know what the Bible
says about those who give.
And aren’t we grateful
for all that Jehovah is providing
to help us and support us
now through a very difficult time?
(3) Jehovah’s heart is made glad
by the faithfulness of his servants.
He never forgets all that we have done.
At Proverbs 23:15, he says:
“If your heart becomes wise,
then my own heart will rejoice.”
If we remain faithful to Jehovah,
the joy that we
can bring to him will last forever.
(4) Because Jehovah is perfect,
he always does what is right.
He will never do anything
to spoil his own happiness.
Well, now that we have looked
at what makes Jehovah the happy God,
we want to know what makes us happy,
that is, what makes us truly happy
—deep-down-inside happy.
After all, it’s not difficult
to find superficial happiness.
For instance, when you’re near
someone with a funny laugh,
do you often find yourself
laughing as well?
It happens, right?
You may not even know
what you’re laughing about, true?
The point is this:
It’s not all that difficult
to experience superficial happiness.
But to find lasting joy takes effort,
and it takes appreciation
for what we have.
We will now look at some
of the things that bring us real joy,
and as you might expect,
it begins with Jehovah.
Our relationship with Jehovah
is our foremost reason for joy,
but not just any relationship;
take note of what is needed
as we read Psalm 16:11.
As we do so, first,
notice what Jehovah does.
Next, see what type of relationship
we can have with him.
Then, make the connection to having joy.
Psalm 16:11 reads:
“You make known to me the path of life.
In your presence is abundant joy.”
So again, first, what does Jehovah do?
He kindly makes
“the path of life” known to us.
Next, what type of relationship
can we have with him?
A very close one, it says,
as if “in [his very] presence.”
Then we read that “in [his] presence,”
there is what?
“Abundant joy.”
Now, along with having
a close relationship with Jehovah,
as mentioned there,
what else brings us joy?
Jehovah’s holy spirit does.
His holy spirit generates joy
in those who receive it.
For this reason, we should pray
to receive his holy spirit every day.
What else promotes true joy within us?
Our marvelous hope.
Also, we have
an abundance of spiritual food,
even under difficult circumstances.
That joyful blessing
was foretold in God’s Word.
To see it, please go
to Isaiah 65:13, 14.
Now, in these verses,
Jehovah draws a contrast
between good people
and bad people
when he says this,
starting in verse 13:
“Therefore this is what
the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Look!
“‘My servants will eat,
but you will go hungry.
“‘Look!
“‘My servants will drink,
but you will go thirsty.
“‘Look!
“‘My servants will rejoice,
but you will suffer shame.
“‘Look!
“‘My servants will shout joyfully
because of the good condition of the heart,
but you will cry out
because of the pain of heart.’”
Do you see yourself
on Jehovah’s side of this contrast?
If you’ve been keeping up
with God’s organization,
you should feel well-fed spiritually.
The bad conditions of this world
must not be permitted
to take away from our joy.
As Jehovah said:
“[We] shout joyfully.”
Why?
“Because of the good condition
of the heart.”
We are more ready than ever before
to see the realization of our hope.
On the other hand,
the world around us is suffering
because they lack clear direction
and they are without real hope.
Throughout our lives,
and especially at times like this,
we should take note
of Jehovah’s help.
When we see that Jehovah is helping us,
we know that he is with us.
We just know it
—and this too brings us immense joy!
Also, we find joy in hearing
the expressions of faith
that come from our dear brothers
and sisters, don’t we?
And this is true whether we
meet together for worship in person
or whether we meet
by means of video.
In fact, with so much
to add to our inner joy,
we can come to have a joy
so strong and so deep within us
that nothing can shake it.
Even persecution,
though not enjoyable in itself,
can lead to joy.
How so?
As Jesus said at Matthew 5:11, 12:
“Happy are you when people reproach you
“and persecute you and lyingly say
“every sort of wicked thing
against you for my sake.
“Rejoice and be overjoyed,
since your reward is great.”
So how can we be joyful
even though we are persecuted?
Because when we endure persecution
with joy and keep our integrity,
we gain a victory and Jehovah’s approval.
Jesus said: “Rejoice and be overjoyed,
since your reward is great.”
Well, so far, we have defined true joy,
we have examined why Jehovah
is called “the happy God,”
and we have reviewed
a number of things that bring us godly joy.
But at this point, you may be wondering,
‘Can I really be happy if I am suffering?’
That’s a very good question.
So let’s look some more at how
or in what sense we can “always rejoice.”
The fact is that at times all of us
may be saddened by injustice,
poor health, unemployment, grief,
or other causes of anxiety
such as mankind has experienced
with this global pandemic.
And many of our brothers and sisters
have been affected
by such things, haven’t they?
Since that is the case,
let’s look at how we can apply
the words of our convention theme,
at Philippians 4:4.
Now, as we read verse 4
—Philippians 4:4—
imagine the apostle Paul writing this
while he was in prison bonds, or chains.
Yet, full of faith,
he said this with God’s spirit on him:
“Always rejoice in the Lord.
Again I will say, Rejoice!”
Why could Paul say this so emphatically?
Because the apostle Paul was a man
who had true godly joy.
Paul had true joy that was not dependent
on what was happening around him
or what was happening to him.
From a heart filled with faith,
he said that he had joy
that was focused in,
or on, the Lord.
That is why Paul was joyful
despite any injustice
or anxiety that he experienced.
“Always rejoice,”
he said, “again . . . rejoice.”
What will help us to apply
these inspired words?
Well, like Paul, we too can always rejoice,
despite unpleasant circumstances,
when we grow in faith and seek true joy.
We too seek joy that’s not merely
the result of what happens
around us or what happens to us.
When we pray earnestly for God’s spirit,
he helps us to succeed
and to keep our deep inner joy
no matter what trial we may face.
Even more than this,
we have Jehovah’s example to imitate.
He has maintained his joy
despite much heartache.
What has he endured?
Well, over a period of about 4,000 years,
Jehovah saw a number of angels
rebel against his sovereignty.
He saw Adam and Eve rebel.
He watched wickedness
spread across the earth.
He saw false worship spread,
and this included
what his chosen people, the Israelites,
did as they reverted again
and again to apostasy.
Finally, Jehovah saw his enemies
put his Son to death.
But through it all,
though unimaginably painful for Him,
Jehovah never lost his deep-seated joy.
In fact, imagine his joy
as he watched the vast majority
of the angels keep their integrity.
Imagine his joy
as he watched
faithful Israelites keep their integrity
even when faced with death.
And imagine Jehovah’s joy
as he saw thousands turn
to following his Son
and become true Christians
—a number that today
reaches into the millions.
Jehovah has always been able
to see the light beyond the storm.
May we imitate the happy God
and count our blessings every day,
even during the most difficult times.
To help us to do this, we have
an entire convention now to enjoy
—all of it centered
on the thought of always rejoicing.
This convention includes talks,
symposiums, interviews,
a Bible drama, and many videos
that will teach us how to cultivate
and display “joy of holy spirit.”
Please look at the convention program,
and let’s see what’s in store for us.
Our Scriptural theme for the first day
is also our convention theme scripture,
Philippians 4:4,
which again says:
“Always rejoice in the Lord.
Again I will say, Rejoice!”
We have so much to look forward to
during the first day of this program.
For instance,
the opening symposium will show
that it’s Jehovah’s advice,
not the world’s wisdom,
that brings true joy
when we follow it.
Then the dramatic Bible reading
will help us to visualize
the events recorded
in the book of Ezra.
After that, we will enjoy
a faith-strengthening review
of how in the past
Jehovah saved his people
as a group and as individuals.
During this critical time,
it’s important for us to take to heart
what we will hear in that talk, entitled
“Rejoice in Jehovah’s Acts
of Salvation.”
In the afternoon session,
the second symposium of the day
will explain how the joy
in a family is enhanced
when each member appreciates
and cherishes the others.
The last symposium of the day
will show how creation
provides convincing proof
that Jehovah wants us to enjoy life.
This will be followed
by a talk that will discuss
how we can find more peace and more joy
by avoiding jealousy and competition.
Finally, the first day concludes
with a talk that will show us
how those who truly know
Jehovah are optimistic.
They are generous and patient.
As with each part of this convention,
listen carefully to this talk, entitled
“Close Friendship With Jehovah
Brings the Greatest Joy!”
We now look ahead to the second day
of our convention program.
The Scriptural theme
is based on Psalm 105:3,
and there in verse 3, we are encouraged
to “boast about his holy name.
Let the hearts of those
seeking Jehovah rejoice.”
One important way
to “boast about [Jehovah’s] holy name”
is by means of our disciple-making work.
Tying that in with our convention theme,
the first symposium of the day
will leave no doubt
that our joy increases as our skills
in the disciple-making work improve.
Following this, the second symposium
will show how we can find joy
in the ministry when we rely
on the help that God
gives us for this work.
The baptism talk
will help those soon-to-get-baptized
to keep in mind
what they need to do in order to be happy
now and forever.
In the afternoon portion
of the second day’s program,
you will hear experiences during a series
of videos that will make you proud
to be part of our international brotherhood
of disciple-makers.
The last symposium of day two
will focus on ways you can help
your Bible students
to overcome their fears
and experience Jehovah’s help
and his blessings.
This will be followed
by a convention highlight
—Part I of the Bible drama
“The Joy of Jehovah Is Your Stronghold.”
After that faith-strengthening drama,
we will enjoy the final talk
of the second day, entitled
“Making Disciples Now Prepares Us
for New World Disciple-Making.”
This talk will help
to increase our enthusiasm
not only for the disciple-making
work of today
but also for that yet to come.
Now we go to the final day
of our program.
With a Scriptural theme
taken from Psalm 37:4,
the final day focuses our attention
on what lies at the heart of true joy.
Psalm 37:4 says:
“Find exquisite delight in Jehovah,
and he will grant you
the desires of your heart.”
With Jehovah as our focus,
we start the day
with a seven-part symposium
that will highlight how we
can endure trials with joy.
Afterward,
during the public Bible discourse,
the speaker will explain
what riches God promises
and how they can be obtained.
In the concluding session of our convention,
we will be delighted to watch
the thrilling climax of the Bible drama
“The Joy of Jehovah Is Your Stronghold.”
Then the convention program
will conclude with the talk
“Find Exquisite Delight in Jehovah!”
We will all benefit
as the speaker reviews
what helps us now
and what we have
to look forward to in the future.
Would you like to see a preview
of the many videos
we will enjoy at this convention?
We thought so.
Let’s watch.
I tried to look for work,
but I was unsuccessful.
It was a struggle even to get water.
And the specialist gave us the diagnosis
of a very aggressive brain tumor.
My negative disposition
made me a very impatient, sarcastic,
and demanding person.
The fact that I was not appointed
as an elder made me feel disappointed.
Jehovah will act in the near future,
fulfilling all his promises.
And so I’m happy to endure.
And when everything
around you is chaotic,
the one thing you have
is your relationship with Jehovah.
Regaining joy is a work in progress.
I’ve always admired
the beauty and power of the sea.
It reminds me of the One
who created the sea.
It’s not hard for him to care
for just one small human like me.
What a wonderful preview!
We have so many blessings
to appreciate
and to draw strength from.
Yes, enjoy the blessings
of cultivating “joy of holy spirit.”
From this opening discussion,
it’s clear that godly joy
does not come from random events;
nor does it come from this world.
Rather, godly joy
—true joy—
is an aspect of the fruitage
of God’s holy spirit.
What will be one of the many blessings
that we will experience
if we continue to rejoice?
The answer,
which this convention will highlight,
is found at 2 Corinthians 13:11.
Please read it along with me
—2 Corinthians 13:11.
It says: “Finally, brothers,
continue to rejoice,
“to be readjusted, to be comforted,
to think in agreement,
“to live peaceably;
and the God of love and of peace
will be with you.”
So if you continue to rejoice
in serving Jehovah,
what is the promise?
The promise is that “the God of love
and of peace will be with you.”
With that in mind,
let’s be determined
to “always rejoice.”
In turn, Jehovah,
“the happy God,”
will always be with us.